thousands of people remain on the
streets of major Israeli cities for a
third day on Monday demonstrators
demanding the government sign a deal
Benjamin netan has just spoken on isra
television he's asking for forgiveness
for not bringing the captives
home I told the families and I will say
it again tonight I apologize and ask for
your forgiveness because we couldn't
bring them back alive we were close
close but we failed let me say this
again tonight Israel will not remain
silent on this massacre Hamas will pay
the price a very high
price alar is a political analyst and
contributor to the Israeli Daily
Newspaper haret he joins us now from Tel
Aviv good to have you with us so
Netanyahu they're asking for forgiveness
do you think most Israelis particularly
those on the streets protesting against
him are ready to give him
forgiveness well Sammy uh I don't
forgive him I was there
uh yesterday I was today protesting as
not as a journalist but uh as an Israeli
Patriot and uh they don't forgive him
first of all because he
still doesn't take the responsibility
for what happened to Israel on October
7th number two he is not showing us any
light at the end of the tunnels of Hamas
just more soldiers and more civilians
more captives getting back home in body
bags so uh there is no forgiveness uh
among those people there is fatigue yes
uh the question is how long will those
people who are taking to the streets
every day and it it's quite warm I think
it's not as warm as in goha but um it's
it's a summer and uh uh people in the
north including children didn't stop the
school year and they don't forgive him
and uh the people who spent 10 or now
more than 10 months in reserves people
who lost their jobs and lost their
businesses they don't forgive
him how much of a challenge then do you
think these protests are becoming to
Netanyahu you mentioned the fatigue but
the pictures coming in the live pictures
coming in from Tel Aviv show you know
people are still gathering on the
streets it doesn't look like the numbers
are ready to dissipate at least right
now yeah but but it seems we know from
uh recent history you remember s when we
were talking about the so-called uh
judicial reform that uh we had uh every
weekend half a million people in the
streets now uh in in my neighborhood we
got 20 or 30,000 now we can hardly get
1,000 people to get out of their home
and the reason is is that uh the Israeli
politicians uh mainly from the liud and
the Orthodox party seem uh to uh do
everything they they can including
robbing the the budget and robbing the
country's future the future of our
children to stay in power and uh uh
people are losing hope that there will
be at least four or five people from
theud or from Shas that uh will uh not
be able to uh look at the mirror and
they will defect um so and Netanyahu
going back to him um wants to say there
because otherwise if the war will end
and actually he compared uh the uh
Philadelphia a to the ex of evil so for
him he said he will never leave Gaza he
wants to stay there forever which means
that he will perpet the war he knows
that December 1st he will have to stand
in court and uh be uh uh crucified and
uh for him uh this Coalition is a
lifesaver as you're talking a I just
want to point out we're looking at live
pictures of a protest in West Jerusalem
outside the prime minister's residence
I'm being told so you can see still it
looks like quite a number of people
coming out onto the streets there what
do you make
then it it is a bit of a a game of
political strategy and chess given
listening to what you were saying going
on does the Israeli Court ruling
ordering an end to the strike offer a
major sort of sense of relief for
Netanyahu a move that you know only 24
hours ago many people were caught by
surprise thinking this could be very
serious for the government has the
picture changed radically now with the
court
ruling actually uh you know Israel is
still a democracy yes and uh um when we
look at the the polls the Israeli if not
this Coalition the Israeli right and
radical right have the the upper hand
even if we go for elections um we uh
will not go back to the negotiating
table with the Palestinians so people
are losing hope um more and more
Israelis are uh lining up in uh foreign
embassies to get uh European or American
passports and leave and these people are
the Elite um and uh uh netan and uh his
gang believe that uh democracy is all
about elections and as long as they have
64 mandates in the CET um they have the
full legitimacy to rule and uh to send
more and more youngsters to the
battlefield without telling them what is
the aim what is the exit strategy of
this war what Israel wants to do with
Gaza they are not going anywhere so uh
yeah uh if we had a so-called
normal moral government uh those images
that you show from the streets will make
a difference but it seems that uh for
netan the alternative which is his uh uh
personal political and personal life is
more important than the lives of the
Israeli captives and keep in mind that
uh even if he will hold have a full
control over the uh Philadelphia AIS
that uh he turned to be sacred interest
of Israel uh they will the people like
the six Israeli captives that were
killed in the tunnels they are still
there and when uh the uh Hamas militants
will hear the Israeli soldiers we will
not hear from those captives that they
are holding in the
tunnels okay so if you were saying that
the streets might not make that much a
difference what about the splits within
the government particularly between the
security establishment and the Prime
Minister it's it's not new of course
there have been reports of tensions but
the latest statements by UAV Galant the
Minister of Defense talking about
netanyahu's position and
insistence on keeping Israeli troops in
the Philadelphia Corridor I mean those
comments sound they look like they're
designed particularly to be targeted
against the Prime Minister he's supposed
to be so under how serious is
that actually natany has managed uh uh
to corer gallant and to exclude him from
the liud and uh we all know that he's
got no political future and netan got a
majority in the cabinet and uh he proved
that uh you know uh Gant and uh What uh
he believes is the security gang the
head of the mosad it's not only Galan
it's the entire Security Administration
the uh Chief of Staff the head of De
mosad and shin who support gallant and
they keep telling journalists of the
record but in the cabinets meeting they
speak out and they say you have to make
a decision if you want to execute at
least we have 30 and 40 other captives
alive say it loud don't tell us that uh
we will bring them uh back home just
with more pressure on the Hamas no the
Hamas will the Hamas knows that these
people are their only bargaining trick
and if I was sin I would keep them you
know uh he knows that otherwise you know
n will even be able to send back
settlers to Gaza if uh bangri and spich
will keep pushing him and putting him uh
to the
corner all right thank you so much for
your thoughts and Analysis on that AK
alar political
analyst make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
algera